---
title: "Files as Resources in .NET projects"
tags: ["post", "dot-net", "vbnet"]
layout: post
---

Have you ever found that sleek application you wrote slowly becoming
scattered over time with the use of external files? Say you want to
create a simple GUI application that can be distributed as just an
executable file. What if you want to use a _\*.chm_ help file? This
article will show how to embed that file in your executable via the .NET
concept of **Resources**.<!--more--> _Note: To view full-sized images in
this post, click on the thumbnails._

First, we start by opening the Project configuration by right-clicking
the "My Project" object in the Solution Explorer and selecting "Open."

`[SCREENSHOT MISSING]`

Next, make sure you have selected the "Resources" tab in the
configuration list.

`[SCREENSHOT MISSING]`

Here's where your options may differ. If you want to track the file
you're including as a Resource by associating it with your project, you
can drag that file from an Explorer window into your project.

`[SCREENSHOT MISSING]`

The file is now a part of your project, and as such, will show up in the
Solution Explorer.

`[SCREENSHOT MISSING]`

Now, drag the file from Solution Explorer into the Resources panel to
include it as a resource in your compiled solution.

`[SCREENSHOT MISSING]`

If you don't want to track the file by associating it with your project,
you can just as easily drag the file directly into the Resources panel.
Keep in mind, though, that every time you compile your project, the
Resources will have to call on their physical counterparts. If the file
is missing, that Resource will fail to be added to the compiled project.

Be sure to save your Project configuration after adding the resource.

`[SCREENSHOT MISSING]`

At this point, you have the Resource available to your .NET project
through an object called the _ResourceManager_. The easiest way to
access this object is by calling _My.Resources.NameOfTheResource_. The
_NameOfTheResource_ will be whatever name Visual Studio assigned to your
Resource when you added it (or the name you configured for yourself
after dragging it in). The file "rexCrawler.chm" was given the Resource
name "rexCrawler".

This code will check if the file to be generated from the resource
hasn't already been generated by using a Static variable (that will be
set in code further below) called _helpFile_, which stores the path for
the physical resource after it has been written. Its default value is
_Nothing_.

**VB.NET Code:**

```vb
If helpFile = Nothing _
	Or Not My.Computer.FileSystem.FileExists(helpFile) _
Then
	helpFile = IO.Path.GetTempPath & "rexCrawler.chm"
	ExtractHelpToFile()
End If

Help.ShowHelp(Me, helpFile)
```

The following code represents the contents of the _ExtractHelpToFile()_
Sub. It uses _IO.Path.GetTempPath_ to find a suitable location to write
the Resource file to, and then employs a _MemoryStream_ to read from the
ResourceManager and a _FileStream_ to write to the physical location.

**VB.NET Code:**

```vb
Dim resource As IO.Stream = New IO.MemoryStream(My.Resources.rexCrawler)
Dim output As IO.Stream = _
	New IO.FileStream(helpFile, IO.FileMode.Create, IO.FileAccess.Write)
Dim bytes(4096) As Byte
Dim bytesread As Integer = 0

While resource.Position < resource.Length - 1
	bytesread = resource.Read(bytes, 0, bytes.Length)
	output.Write(bytes, 0, bytesread)
End While

output.Close()]
```

This method can be adapted to any type of binary file you wish to write
to a temporary location. I would also recommend using a version number
or build number in your resource's temporary file name, so that new
versions can't possibly get stuck using an outdated file.

There are methods available to you for more common file types (such as
images). Just keep in mind--the ResourceManager will give you the data
as a Byte array. If you can find constructors that will allow a Byte
array as their input source, you're in business.

The preceding code has been taken directly from
[rexCrawler](https://sites.google.com/site/rexcrawler) v2.4.5.0 source.
I, haliphax, the author of this blog and of the rexCrawler software,
allow the use of the source code posted here for non-profit and personal
use.
