---
title: "Tribute: An Homage to My ASCII Heroes"
tags: ['post', 'my-software']
layout: post
---

I don't generally write anything on here that isn't about code; I don't
like to use this as any kind of a soapbox. To me, this site is about
sharing tricks and solutions I've created or come across in software
development. That being said, I am so incredibly proud of this thing
that I've madeâ€”I can't help but shout about it from the
mountaintops.<!--more-->

*(TL;DR - Here's a [link to the
colly](https://16colo.rs/pack/blocktronics_acid_trip/r-tribut.xb))*

ANSI and [ASCII art](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII_art) have been
a personal hobby of mine for about 20 years now. I first got involved
with it when I was 12 years old, dialing local bulletin board systems
(BBS) and marveling at the art I would see in the door games of the era.
In the following years, I would discover an entire world of underground
artwork and artists to immerse myself in (and eventually become a part
of).

This ASCII collection (or "colly", in scene parlance) is a series of
logos dedicated to the artists from
[Remorse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remorse_ASCII) that inspired me
early in my career as a textmode artist. I first began work on it in
2004, after which the circumstances of my life led me to drop it for
long periods of time (years, in fact) and, eventually, to drop it
altogether. A year or two ago, I got a wild itch to return to my old
haunts as a spectator and check in on the world I once knew. To my
surprise, it was still lively and inspiring (albeit much smaller).
Before too long, my old hobby resurfaced entirely, and I was drawing
once again. I did small, individual pieces at first, but then recently
joined a regularly-releasing group Break!Ascii) and started getting really
comfortable in my own skin again as an artist. I then returned to the
colly.

As fate would have it, one of the major ANSI groups of today,
[Blocktronics](http://blocktronics.org), advertised their plans to
release a tribute pack to one of the original groups that really pushed
the boundaries of the art form,
[ACiD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACiD_Productions). I felt as though
it was fate: my colly was a tribute to Remorse, the group I was
initially inspired by; the group I later joined, and rose to senior
staff during my tenure. Remorse is also, technically speaking, the ASCII
"wing" of ACiD... sort of a sub-department. Serendipity! I quickly
focused my efforts so that I could finish the collection before the
Blocktronics release.

Well, here we are. I present to you my blood, sweat, and tears; my soul
laid bare in 79 columns and 2,013 lines of text; an homage to my ASCII
heroes.

[Tribute: An Homage to My ASCII Heroes - A colly by haliphax of
Remorse/ACiD](https://16colo.rs/pack/blocktronics_acid_trip/r-tribut.xb)

[Blocktronics: ACiD
Trip](https://16colo.rs/pack/blocktronics_acid_trip/)
