---
title: My daughter deserves better
tags: ["post", "women-in-tech", "industry"]
layout: post
---

I'll be honest--I don't want to write this post, and for a multitude of
reasons. Namely, I don't want to write this post because writing this post
crystallizes the fact that this post _needs to be written_. I also feel just so
wholly inadequate to put text on a screen regarding such an important topic...
that my words won't do it justice, or won't hit the mark quite right. You know
what, though? That's bullshit. Inaction in this case is _guaranteed_ to be a
demonstrably worse decision. My daughter deserves better.

My daughter deserves better not because she is _my daughter_, but because she
is a _person_. Being a humanitarian, it is my firm belief that the only thing
which can make this world a better place is the people in it.

She is 4 years old (soon to be 5) and she is absolutely the epicenter of
my anything and everything. I care about her more than I care about you. That
being said, a switch flipped inside me when she was born that cranked the
femininism my mother raised me with into overdrive. They say, "everyone is
someone else's daughter/sister/mother", and of course that's _factually_
accurate, but (to my shame) it took me being personally affected by it to
really _feel_ it on a visceral level that I just wasn't capable of before. That
last sentence was painful for me to type, but working through those feelings of
shame and sitting with them is part of this. My daughter deserves better.

The hard sciences--"STEM", in the parlance of our time--are not kind nor
encouraging to women. In fact, they are _actively discouraging_ and
_alienating_. This is rooted in our society at a level that is honestly
difficult to fathom (though that difficulty does not make it any less so). Just
recently, my mind was bent clean in half when I had noticed that my daughter's
cousin and boys in her peer group suggested that Kinect games, where you jump
around and move your body, seemed more suited to girls, while games that used a
controller were more suited to boys. I'm paraphrasing, of course, as these are
small children, but the point they were making was clear. As they elaborated,
they tried to explain that boys are better at games with controllers because it
is like using tools, whereas the Kinect games are more like dancing. To them,
the gender-specific association of each was elementary. Never mind the
nauseating irony of their claim, as dancing is an _incredibly_ technical skill
set, and _very_ physically demanding. (There are many examples from my youth
that sort of hit me here and there as I remember them, but this one was recent
and very personal.) Girls deserve better.

This same behavior continues throughout women's lives, where they are
discouraged from participating in math and science subjects and nudged in the
direction of something less rigorous or prestigious. I work at a mid-sized
university with campuses nationwide. I have seen--multiple times, even--a wave
of very talented, very driven, very capable, and very prolific women join the
IT department... only to walk back out that revolving door a year or two later.
I have spoken with most of them that left, and the reasons they gave me became
less and less surprising with each new discussion. They were being overworked,
underpaid, unrecognized, and held to a different standard of behavior from
their male colleagues, myself included. Myself _primarily_, in some cases, as I
have no issue with speaking my mind if I feel that a decision is unwise. I am
rewarded for being "bold" and "forward-thinking", whereas a female colleague
presenting the same idea will be seen as "confrontational" and "irritable". In
freely sharing my own salary with anyone who was curious (because the taboo
around doing so is horse shit, and a topic for another day), I discovered that
each and every one of them was making drastically less than they should have
been, given their work ethic and history of contribution to the college and its
projects. Women deserve better.

It has taken me years to shake off the apprehension about loudly and repeatedly
calling this kind of thing out and trying to turn a mirror on other men who
have yet to make any of these realizations themselves. For that, I am ashamed.
I should be. We all should be. That it's been this bad for this long; that it
continues in spite of this most recent generation repeatedly turning a
spotlight on the issue; that it is paid lip service but not given true
consideration... is appalling, to put it lightly. Men, we all need to do
better.

(After all, computers hate us all equally.)

A huge thank-you to [whitep4nth3r] for her [unbreak.tech] initiative, which
gave me the kick in the pants I needed to post this.

PS. There is so much more that I want to write, and no matter what I write, it
won't feel like enough. I mean, it's _not_ enough, which is kind of the point
of the post... I just want to reiterate that it doesn't matter. If anyone who
reads this is given pause to take an inward look at their own behavior and an
outward look at the behavior of those they associate with, then it is more than
worth it.

[whitep4nth3r]: https://twitter.com/whitep4nth3r
[unbreak.tech]: https://unbreak.tech
